---
title: 'Welcome to my Website!'
date: 2022-09-01
permalink: /posts/2022/09/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - website
---
**Summary:**
Creating a place to document my personal and professional efforts over my career. This website will serve as a more detailed resume/CV for individuals not wanting to crawl through my Github repositories.

## "You already have a CV, LinkedIn, and Github profile, why have this website"?
While it is true that a lot of my work is available to anyone with an internte connection, the purpose of this website is two-fold:
1. Have a consolidated location for accessing/reading about the various projects that I have worked on. This is both for others and myself, as I've forgotten about projects whose code could be applied to my current work
2. Keep myself thinking about how best to make my work accessable to others. A common fault in coders is the aversion to documentation, something I actively try to stay on top of. If I can't describe what I've done in a couple paragraphs on this website, then I haven't organized/modularized my work enough for someone else to understand/untilize it

I want to make this website something I maintain (in one form or another) for the rest of my professional career. I've always been a huge stickler for organizational mathods which scale indefinately and I believe this website will be the best method for tracking my work. Who knows, maybe this will be expanded into something more as I collaborate with others?

## Things to check out
As always, I recommend checking out the `Projects` for descriptions of projects I've completed or am currently working on for a significant amount of time.