---
title: "Self-referential encoding of source information in recollection memory"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-04-01_Chai_1
excerpt: 'Using a Remember/Know paradigm, we compared source memory accuracy under self-referential encoding and semantic encoding.'
date: 2021-04-01
venue: 'PLOS ONE'
paperurl: 'https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0248044'
citation: 'Ross Lawrence, Xiaoqian Chai (2021). &quot;Self-referential encoding of source information in recollection memory.&quot; <i>PLOS ONE</i>. 16(4).'
---

### Abstract:
Information that is encoded in relation to the self has been shown to be better remembered, yet reports have disagreed on whether the memory benefit from self-referential encoding extends to source memory (the context in which information was learned). In this study, we investigated the self-referential effect on source memory in recollection and familiarity-based memory. Using a Remember/Know paradigm, we compared source memory accuracy under self-referential encoding and semantic encoding. Two types of source information were included, a “peripheral” source which was not inherent to the encoding activity, and a source information about the encoding context. We observed the facilitation in item memory from self-referential encoding compared to semantic encoding in recollection but not in familiarity-based memory. The self-referential benefit to source accuracy was observed in recollection memory, with source memory for the encoding context being stronger in the self-referential condition. No significant self-referential effect was observed with regards to peripheral source information (information not required for the participant to focus on), suggesting not all source information benefit from self-referential encoding. Self-referential encoding also resulted in a higher ratio of “Remember/Know” responses rate than semantically encoded items, denoting stronger recollection. These results suggest self-referential encoding creates a richer, more detailed memory trace which can be recollected later on.

### Links:
[Download paper here](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0248044)